---
title: Documentation/Rancher/Pg20
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-04-11T11:29:51.269Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-04-11T11:04:16.898Z
---

# Documentation/Rancher/Pg20
## Deploy Wordpress as a Stateful Application

In this step, we will be deploying Wordpress as a stateful application in the Kubernetes cluster. This wordpress deployment will utilize the we deployed in the previous step to store our mariadb data persistently.
1. From Apps & Marketplace > Charts install the Wordpress app
2. In step 1 of the install wizard, choose the stateful-wordpress namespace and give the installation the name wordpress
3. In step 2 of the install wizard, set:
• Wordpress settings > Wordpress password - to a password of your choice
• Enable Wordpress setting > Wordpress Persistent Volume Enabled
• Enable Database setting > MariaDB Persistent Volume Enabled
• Services and Load Balancing > Hostname - stateful-wordpress.34.243.114.229.sslip.io
4. Scroll to the bottom and click Install.
5. Once the installation is complete, navigate to Service Discovery > Ingresses. There you will see a new Ingress. Click on the URL to access Wordpress.
• Note: You may receive 404, 502, or 503 errors while the wordpress app is coming up. Simply refresh the page occasionally until Wordpress is available
6. Note that you now have two Persistent Volumes available under Storage > Persistent Volumes
7. Log into Wordpress using your set admin credentials -  http://stateful-wordpress.34.243.114.229.sslip.io/wp-admin and create a new blog post. If you delete the wordpress-mariadb pod or click Redeploy now, your post will not be lost.

---

[<- Previous Page](/Documentation/Rancher/Pg19) -------     [Next Page ->](/Documentation/Rancher/Pg21)