---
title: Development Meeting - 12th February 2024
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-02-12T15:20:53.365Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-02-12T15:01:33.932Z
---

**12th February 2024**

## Attendees

* Peter Roden
* Josh Sweeney
* Bart Wojda
* Charlie Glover
* Harrison O'Leary
* Ashton Dunderdale

## Agenda

### Management Meeting
Recap of Management Meeting catchup

### Test Pipeline Implications
Testing pool has been merged with the Development pool.

This means pipelines that deployed to testing no longer works.

A fix is known, it just depends on other priorities.

### Arduino Project
Further conversations are required to determine what we are doing for the next Arduino Project day.

### Dev / Requirement Pipelines
Numerous instances of developers not being satisfied with requirements from Shirebrook
- Missing certain functional requirements
- Not enough detail
- Developers sending requirements back with questions

What should we do about this?

We suggested not doing any work until requirements are provided to a certain standard. But agreed that this could leave us with less work to do.

Generally, we end up completing the work to our understanding of it 

### Testing Recap
Items are getting stuck in testing again.

The Testing Procedures are not being followed, in terms of updating Epicor.

This is making it near-impossible to track the number of test failures in Epicor, which is a project we started in September.

### Wiki
Is the Wiki fit for purpose. Generally we agreed that it **is not fit for purpose**.

The following list shows our dislikes
- Pictures (Adding pictures is harder than necessary)
- Change Log (The Change Log is often inaccurate)
- Asset Management (As with Pictures, it's difficult to know if assets have been updated)
- Templates (Templates are difficult to use)
- Git Sync (Often does not work)
- Folder Structure (General confusion on where certain pages should go)
- Version / Drafts (Does not contain a good system for "hiding" new versions before publishing)

BW to look at alternative wiki software

### Kanban Project
The kanban project is used, in-earnest, by multiple developers.

Suggested improvements
- Adding new phases
- Adding a project overview

### MFS Dashboards Kinetic
Shared the idea of creating web-frontends, using Flutter, instead of using kinetic dashboards.

This would give us more flexibility at the cost of increased development time.

This would also require HOL to learn Flutter, or for already-trained developers to take time away from other projects to develop the frontends.

### Spread The Love
Shared the idea of having developers work on other developers projects to reduce the risk that one project cannot be worked on whilst another developer is away.

An instance of this occured with MIMS in December where JS was unavailable meaning PR had to fix the problem.

JS suggested that he would have a code-review with other developers targetting the MIMS flutter app within the next couple of months.

All developers aggreed that they would be willing to work on other developer's projects.

### PDP
PR will arrange meetings with each employee to review goals from their previous appraisal.

This will happen within the next two weeks.

### Side Projects
Atendees expressed that they like the concept of having a side-project to work on, one day a week.

To align with the interests of the Company, it was suggested that the project should be of interest to the Company.

20% of apprentices time is already at college, meaning this may only be applicable to employees.

## Mobile Apps
> This section has been omitted
> Future meetings will use this section to document the backlog