---
title: Dev Ops Meeting 2024-01-08
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-01-22T08:38:15.821Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-01-22T08:38:10.483Z
---

**8th January 2024**

# Attendees

* Phil Manning
* Peter Roden
* Josh Sweeney
* Bart Wojda
* Ashton Dunderdale
* Charlie Glover

# Actions from last meeting

### Log Monitoring Service

Deployment to be set up with connection string to use gmsa account

Will be set up by 12thJan

<br/>

# Agenda

### Database Log Table

Last year, we experimented with logging to our SQL database with successful results (`GHALogging` database)

How much is too much though? How big can we let the table grow?

Should we create a `GHALogging` database on the live SQL server?

---

Abandon this - long term plan is to use Grafana

Phil to give access to PR and JS

<br/>

### Dev SQL Server Certificate

Does the Dev SQL server have a SSL certificate?

<br/>

#### Context
Entity Framework Core (EF Core) makes use of the `System.Data.SqlClient` package. As of EF Core 7, SQL Connection Strings have `Encrypt=True` by default ([Source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-7.0/breaking-changes?tabs=v7#encrypt-true
)). If we choose to upgrade our packages in the future, SQL connections will fail due to the following error: 
```
The certificate chain was issued by an authority that is not trusted
```

There are three ways to fix it [Source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-7.0/breaking-changes?tabs=v7#mitigations):
1. Add `Encrypt=false` to the Connection String
2. Add `TrustServerCertification=true` to the Connection String
3. "Install a valid certificate on the server"

If we go with option 1 or 2, we will disable encryption & certificate checking (which is what we're doing currently). **We will also need to add the property to the Connection String in the `Customers` table.**

**Option 3** should be the most ideal since it shouldn't require any changes (to the data) and would enable encryption. It does require a certificate from a trusted authority (Commercial providers such as LetsEncrypt should be trusted). If it is not trusted, we will get the error we currently get (`The certificate chain was issued by an authority that is not trusted`)

<br/>

### New Dev Server

New server will replace GHAUKDVCH01 and GHAUKDVCH02 servers, and GHAUKDVSQL

Free up ~20% of resources in GHA cloud environment

Static IP address not available at Landmark, so looking at creating a tunnel between the Landmark and a third party service

Approval got by mirectors - will be going ahead with this - planned time frame two-three weeks

<br/>

### GHA Epicor Upgrade

- Developer dashboard - revamped and available as a kinetic screen
- Project screen - pending (HOL)
- Project screen - pending (HOL)
- Case Entry (developers) - pending

AD has completed phase one of the Kanban board for develoment project management

BW has completed phase one of the app

<br/>

### Pipelines

If somebody is running a long taking deployment it blcks out other developers from deploying eg nuget packages

$15/month per pipeline

Raise at next management meeting

Need to encrypt connection string, API key and JWT token with secrets

<br/>

### Deploying containers

When a server reboots the containers do not start due to a (docker) network error. This is neccessary after eg Windows updates

<span style="color:red">PR and PM to have a look if they can resolve</span>

Ideally have a pipeline to redeploy all containers


PM has a Powershell script to deploy
- By default, restarting windows automatically creates a NAT, bu this differs from the one Docker was using before reboot
- Spinning up the containers tries to use the old (non existent) NAT
- Script recreates the default NAT and relinks the containers


#### New deployments

- Projects
- Cases
- LogEvents table (AP automation)

### SQL Server connection issues

Field service sync failed again 31/12

When a connection is lost to the SQL server the field service sync services do not reconnect. To resolve these service need to be stopped and restarted.

Other services may be affected but they only run periodically. Restart all services anyway.

<span style="color:red">PR to document</span>

Is it possible for the service itself to check if the SQL connection is still there and reconnect if neccessary?

<span style="color:red">Dev team to investigate</span>

### Trim logs

25% CPU usage on DEV02

BW to investigate

<br/>

---

#### Headings
- Infrastructure
	- Container Environment
  - Container Monitoring
  - Container Management
	- Server management
  - SQL Server
- Security
	- Application Security
  - API Security
  - Deployment Pipeline Security
  - Penetration Testing
  - Epicor Security
- Epicor
	- Environments
  - Parameter screen
  - Epicor client CABs
  - Licensing
- Documentation
	- Wiki
  - Technical Reference Guides
- Development Roadmap
