---
title: Dev Ops Meeting 24-02-05
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-02-19T08:13:20.973Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-02-19T08:13:18.258Z
---

**5th February 2024**

# Attendees

* Phil Manning
* Peter Roden
* Josh Sweeney
* Bart Wojda

# Agenda

### Log Monitoring Service

The log monitoring written by Ashton has been completed and deployed.

However Phil has implemented a better solution with Grafana.

An alert will be sent when the epicorincoming.api container has been down for 30 minutes during office hours.

- PR to let PM know other containers that need to be monitored
- JS to add container names into docker yaml files


<br/>

### Dev SQL Server Certificate

Does the Dev SQL server have a SSL certificate?

<br/>

#### Context
Entity Framework Core (EF Core) makes use of the `System.Data.SqlClient` package. As of EF Core 7, SQL Connection Strings have `Encrypt=True` by default ([Source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-7.0/breaking-changes?tabs=v7#encrypt-true
)). If we choose to upgrade our packages in the future, SQL connections will fail due to the following error: 
```
The certificate chain was issued by an authority that is not trusted
```

There are three ways to fix it [Source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-7.0/breaking-changes?tabs=v7#mitigations):
1. Add `Encrypt=false` to the Connection String
2. Add `TrustServerCertification=true` to the Connection String
3. "Install a valid certificate on the server"

If we go with option 1 or 2, we will disable encryption & certificate checking (which is what we're doing currently). **We will also need to add the property to the Connection String in the `Customers` table.**

**Option 3** should be the most ideal since it shouldn't require any changes (to the data) and would enable encryption. It does require a certificate from a trusted authority (Commercial providers such as LetsEncrypt should be trusted). If it is not trusted, we will get the error we currently get (`The certificate chain was issued by an authority that is not trusted`)

**No further work done 22/1/24**


<br/>

### New Dev Server

Dev servers all up and running in the DEV office

No issues so far

VPN not needed whilst on the GHA network

All visitors to be given GHA-Guest password so they cannot access GHA resources

<br/>

### GHA Epicor Upgrade

- Developer dashboard - revamped and available as a kinetic screen
- Project screen - pending (HOL)
- Project screen - pending (HOL)
- Case Entry (developers) - HOL had begun but hit a wall with adding time (UD table/updateable BAQ) to main case form

**KanBan app**

KanBan app developed and in use. 

More functionality will be added in the future

**Project/Issue app**

BW has completed phase one of the app

Will add 'Ideas', possibly via a widget, which can be added to a project

**Case Entry**

BW is working on a new case entry screen for Support

AD is working on a BAQ reader for customers (using saved Epicor credentials to read our BAQs)

<br/>

### Pipelines

AJW has agreed t pay for a second pipeline

**Azure DevOps with 5 users, 2 self-hosted runners, 2GB packages** ***~$12 a month***

- PM to add this to our subscriptions
- JS to set up the second pipeline

<br/>

### SQL Server connection issues

When a connection is lost to the SQL server the field service sync services do not reconnect. To resolve these service need to be stopped and restarted.

Other services may be affected but they only run periodically. Restart all services anyway.

<span style="color:red">PR to document</span>

Is it possible for the service itself to check if the SQL connection is still there and reconnect if neccessary?

<span style="color:red">Dev team to investigate</span>

***Check again on
Thursday, 29 February 2024
Saturday, 30 March 2024
Monday, 29 April 2024
Wednesday, 29 May 2024***

### Trim logs

25% CPU usage on DEV02

BW fixed- was due to corrupt data

<br/>

### Torchbearer Notification

**Sharepoint folder**

- PM has added notifications to the Torchbeaerer**


**MFS and AQS Front end builds**

- not sure our pipelines allow this

---

#### Headings
- Infrastructure
	- Container Environment
  - Container Monitoring
  - Container Management
	- Server management
  - SQL Server
- Security
	- Application Security
  - API Security
  - Deployment Pipeline Security
  - Penetration Testing
  - Epicor Security
- Epicor
	- Environments
  - Parameter screen
  - Epicor client CABs
  - Licensing
- Documentation
	- Wiki
  - Technical Reference Guides
- Development Roadmap
