---
title: Dev Ops Meeting 2024-02-19
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-02-19T12:15:49.790Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-02-19T11:58:16.955Z
---

**19th February 2024**

# Attendees

* Phil Manning
* Peter Roden
* Josh Sweeney
* Bart Wojda

# Agenda

### Log Monitoring Service

All has been working well this fortnight


<br/>

### Dev SQL Server Certificate

Does the Dev SQL server have a SSL certificate?

<br/>

#### Context
Entity Framework Core (EF Core) makes use of the `System.Data.SqlClient` package. As of EF Core 7, SQL Connection Strings have `Encrypt=True` by default ([Source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-7.0/breaking-changes?tabs=v7#encrypt-true
)). If we choose to upgrade our packages in the future, SQL connections will fail due to the following error: 
```
The certificate chain was issued by an authority that is not trusted
```

There are three ways to fix it [Source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-7.0/breaking-changes?tabs=v7#mitigations):
1. Add `Encrypt=false` to the Connection String
2. Add `TrustServerCertification=true` to the Connection String
3. "Install a valid certificate on the server"

If we go with option 1 or 2, we will disable encryption & certificate checking (which is what we're doing currently). **We will also need to add the property to the Connection String in the `Customers` table.**

**Option 3** should be the most ideal since it shouldn't require any changes (to the data) and would enable encryption. It does require a certificate from a trusted authority (Commercial providers such as LetsEncrypt should be trusted). If it is not trusted, we will get the error we currently get (`The certificate chain was issued by an authority that is not trusted`)

<span style="color:red">JS and PM to implement</span>

<br/>

### New Dev Server

Dev servers all up and running in the DEV office

No issues so far

<br/>

#### Assets

Asset tags added to the new DEV server/firewall/network switch

<br/>

### Disaster Recovery

#### Dev Server

Discussed - all back ups are being done on the same box. No disaster recovery should the box be stolen or damaged.

Main risk is the SQL server - all Epicor data is stored here and may be being worked on. Two possibilities discussed:

- Daily off site back ups (logistically difficult but not insurmountable)
- Saving the epicor CABs on one drive or the wiki

PM to change SQL transaction log backups to database incremental backups

#### Laptops

Reiterated nothing shold be stored on laptops, everything should be backed up to One Drive accounts


### GHA Epicor Upgrade

No further work

<br/>

### Pipelines

Second pipeling hasbeen set up and everything working fine

<br/>

### SQL Server connection issues

When a connection is lost to the SQL server the field service sync services do not reconnect. To resolve these service need to be stopped and restarted.

Other services may be affected but they only run periodically. Restart all services anyway.

<span style="color:red">PR to document</span>

Is it possible for the service itself to check if the SQL connection is still there and reconnect if neccessary?

<span style="color:red">Dev team to investigate</span>

***Check again on
Thursday, 29 February 2024
Saturday, 30 March 2024
Monday, 29 April 2024
Wednesday, 29 May 2024***

### Torchbearer Notification

**Sharepoint folder**

- PM has added notifications to the Torchbeaerer folder


**MFS and AQS Front end builds**

- JS has added notifications for all builds

### Wiki

Development department thinking about changing the wiki

CG to implement new wiki if and when decided

---

#### Headings
- Infrastructure
	- Container Environment
  - Container Monitoring
  - Container Management
	- Server management
  - SQL Server
- Security
	- Application Security
  - API Security
  - Deployment Pipeline Security
  - Penetration Testing
  - Epicor Security
- Epicor
	- Environments
  - Parameter screen
  - Epicor client CABs
  - Licensing
- Documentation
	- Wiki
  - Technical Reference Guides
- Development Roadmap
