---
title: Container Log Checker
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-01-17T13:30:46.544Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-10-17T13:27:33.564Z
---

# Requirements Template

> **Requirement Specification**
> Date: 17/10/23
> Prepared By: Peter Roden
> Prepared for: Internal Development
{.is-info}

## Business Requirements

Containerised apps sometimes stop responding. The container itself appears to be running but the program itself running within the container is not responding. There are no indications in the log file that the app is not responding

<br/>

## Functional Requirements

### Process Flow and Details

A service is required which will go through all the container logs on the server and check when the last timestamp was. If the last timestamp was over 1 hour ago then send an email to support@ghasolutions.co.uk


The container logs are located in subfolders of D:\dockerdata\containers and have the name \*.log.

The sevice should run every 30 minutes. If any logs have already een reported they should not be reported again.

Every email that has been sent should be recorded


## Technicial Requirements

Visual Studio Application - Worker Service Template.

A variable ```appSettings``` is used for searching through the table in SQL to grab data required for processing.

The program will get the email to report to, container filePath, expiry time, log check time, and update time interval from the AppSettings table in the GHALicensePortal database, using the following methods:

**LogConfig:** ( class containing the methods )

- ```GetEmailAddress```
- ```GetCheckTime```
- ```GetContainerPath```
- ```GetUpdateTime```


```GetCustomExpiries``` is a method that will execute for each iteration of the worker service. It creates a dictionary to store the container values and key and calls the method: ```ProcessContainerLogs``` which will run for each container. This method will get the name of the guid and compare it against the files in the container directory, if a match is found it will iterate through the matching directories and decide what to do with the container.

The program will check if the container ```startTime``` and container ```endTime``` are in a valid state, for example if startTime is 9 *(9:00)* and endTime is 17 *(5:00)*, and the program is trying to run outside those times then it will not check the containers.

**IF:**

- The container **is expired** and it **has had an email** sent for it then it will create a new log record.

- The container **is expired** and **has not had an email sent** for it then it will send an email and create a new log. ```EmailSentState``` is set to true.

- The container **is not expired** and it **has had an email** sent for it then it will not send an email, and log. ```EmailSentState``` is set to false.

- The container **is not expired** and it **has not had an email** sent for it then it will not send email and, log.

```EmailSentState``` - Used to track whether an email has been sent for the expired log - prevents repetitive emails being sent.



