---
title: Epicor Connection Checks
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-01-17T13:30:41.049Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-08-31T13:41:52.061Z
---

# Requirements Template

> **Requirement Specification**
> Date: 31/08/23
> Prepared By: Peter Roden
> Prepared for: Internal Development
{.is-info}

## Business Requirements

There has been an instance when a customers Epicor was down and we could not connect from our services to update Epicor via the REST API.

Hence a notification is needed to alert both GHA and the customer when this occurs.

<br/>

## Functional Requirements

### Process Flow and Details

Each customer has an Epicor connection defined for each application used. Each connection should be checked periodically to ensure it can be reached.

A global setting should determine how often the check is run.

It should be possible to turn the checks on and off by customer.

If a check fails then an email should be sent to both the customer (administrators) and GHA support. When the connection is reestablished another email should be sent.

Emails to the customer should be able to be turned on and off by GHA. By default the emails should be turned on for a customer.

<br/>

### Business Rules and Data Requirements

Connections strings should only be attempted if all the fields are filled in.

Both live and test connection strings should be checked.

<br/>

### Audit Trail

Fails and consequent successes should be emailed as per the Process Flow above. Both should be logged to a table.

<br/>

## Technicial Requirements

> **How** are the changes implemented?
> This is fllled by the developer and discusses the changes made, design patterns and decisions
{.is-info}

### Database

Create a new table called SyncLogs in the GHALicensePortal database to record successes and failures.

Add a new field to the customer table to turn on and off emailing the customer.

Add a new field to the application table to allow check to occur and a field for the BAQ name to test (varchar(30))

<br/>

### Services

The service should only call Epicor if one or more of the fields are filled in.

The service should call the relevant BAQ for the application being tested:
Application | BAQ Name | Notes
---|---|---
POD | GHA_POD_Version | Not yet implemented
MIMS | GHA_MIMS_Version | | 
POA | GHA_POA_Version | Not yet implemented
MFS | GHA_MFS_Version | |

<br/>

### License Portal

For GHA logins be able to turn on and off emails to the customer




