---
title: Concurrent Licensing for Mobile Apps
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-01-17T13:29:02.477Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-22T09:03:06.862Z
---

# Concurrent Licensing for Mobile Apps

> **Requirement Specification**
> Date: 22/2/23
> Prepared By: Peter Roden
> Prepared for: Internal Development
{.is-info}


## Business Requirements

Mobile applications require concurrent licensing. At the moment licenses are named, ie allocated to an exact number of registered users. However customers have been requesting concurrent licensing so that the maximum number is for simultaneous use and licenses can be reused.

## Functional Requirements

Each customer is assigned a number of named licenses presently. These licenses need to be changed to be used concurrently.

1. The number of licenses is set on each application on a per customer basis.

2. When registering an app a license will not be consumed (as it is currently with named licenses)

3. When logging in successfully a license will be consumed

4. When using the app the number of free/concurrent licenses available will be checked, as detailed below. If all the licenses are taken the user will not be able to log in.

**MIMS**

- When registering (with the current named licenses this is the only time the license availability is checked)
- When logging in
- When starting a sub application from the main menu
  
> Note MIMS is currently only required to be online when registering a device, so it can be used in an internal environment where the wifi is available (to talk to Epicor) but internet access is not neccessary.
> Make concurrent licensing optional, if turned off (named licensing) then licenses work as existing being consumed on registration. In order to prevent people registering and deleting the device on the portal send a 'reregistration delay' which will require the device to reregister
> The change to concurrent licensing will require an internet connection to be available at all times
{.is-warning}
 
**MFS**
  
- When registering
- When logging in
- When refreshing, viewing vehicle parts or when travelling, arriving, starting or pausing/resuming a job from the main screen
  
> Note MFS offline functionality will continue as normal, when a connection is resumed synchronisation between the app and the Field service will resume without a license check. Only when the user interacts with the app will the license check pccur, but this will not affect any ongoing synchronisation.
> Likewise any synchronisation from the server to the app wil not be affected b license availablilty
{.is-warning}

5. When the user logs out the license will be made available again.

6. After a set period of time (defined on each application on a per customer basis) the license will be made available. 

7. The license portal should be changed to show when a device was last used

8. A user can also be logged out manually via the License Portal

POA and POD apps will not be affected by concurrent licensing

## Technical Requirements

1. No need to change anything, we can repurpose the existing named licenses

2. Change the `/register` endpoint on the License API to ignore whether enough licenses are available before registering the device

3. Make the following changes to ensure a license is marked as unavailable when logging in via a mobile app:
- Add a new field to the `Devices` table to store the logged in status (HardLogin, bit)
- Change the `/Login` endpoint in Mobile Field Service to mark the device as logged in
- Create a MIMS service with a `/Login` endpoint which exhibits the same behaviour

4.Add a field for concurrent licensing on the CustomerApps table. 

Add a new endpoint `/CheckLicense` to the License API. This will return whether there are sufficent licenses available

- Add a field to `CustomerApps` to store the auto log out time period in hours (InactiveTime, int)

> A device will be deemed to be consuming a license if
> - The hard login flag is set *and*
> - The last call made by the app is less than the 'license inactive' time (point 6)
>
> This means that an expired license or a license that has been cleared by logging out (either out of the app or manually via the license portal) will be available
>
> The last call made by the app will be any call in Mobile Field Service or a log in or call from the main menu in MIMS.
{.is-info}

Change the apps to suit (call 000035 (MIMS) and separate torchbearer requirement (MFS)

Change the license portal application settings page to show license time out

5. Make the following changes to ensure a license is marked as available when logging out via a mobile app:
- Change the `/logout` endpoint of MFS to clear the logged in flag
- Add a similar endpoint `/logout` to the new MIMS API when logging out

6. Nothing to do here - the last call time is updated when the app interacts with the api and the `/CheckLicense` endpoint will calculate whether the license is available. There will be nothing to 'clear' a logged in user automatically in the database.

7. Change the devices page of the license portal
- add a column showing the last time the app was used

8. Change the devices page of the license portal
- add a column showing the logged in status
- add a new function button against each device to log out

