---
title: Shopify-Epicor link
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-01-17T13:28:49.650Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-09-05T13:46:53.938Z
---

# Requirements

> **Requirement Specification**
> Date: 05/09/23
> Prepared By: Peter Roden
> Prepared for: Internal Development
{.is-success}

## Business Requirements

Hobson Industries uses Epicor ERP within their facility and Shopify as a web shop. Epicor manages parts and inventory which will need to be used by Shopify and Shopify will accept sales orders which will need to be fed back to Epicor. Sales orders are shipped and invoiced from Epicor, when this happens Shopify will need to be notified.

> The same process will be needed between Epicor and eBay, though this is for a future phase and is not in the scope of this document.
{.is-warning}

<br/>

## Functional Requirements

### Part sync from Epicor to Shopify

In Epicor parts that will appear on Shopify will be marked as web parts. Parts in Shopify are known as Products. 

Parts are divided into lots in Epicor, corresponding to variants in Shopify. Each part may have one or more of the following lots/variants

•	N – New
•	R – Reconditioned (units)
•	AR – Reconditioned (parts)
•	U – Used
•	VR – New (Old Stock)

Each lot/variant will have its own pricing, this will be defined on a separate price list for each variant. Prices will be for a part, never for a product group.

In Shopify, Products are grouped into Collections. In Epicor, collections will be marked in a field to be determined.

Multiple images can be displayed on Shopify for each product and each variant. In Epicor, the images will be stored in a server directory and multiple links will be added to each part, with a variant type if required.

Stock in Shopify is a single value but represents stock, less any allocations. Stock in Epicor will normally be stored in one location for each part. We will likely need to mark warehouses and/or bins as Shopify/web locations and sales orders as having come from Shopify

Stock in the following bins will not be added to Shopify:

|&nbsp;|&nbsp;|&nbsp;|
|---|---|---|
|ASSET MANA		|	DAMSELFLY		|	DYNO BAY
|ENGINEERIN		|	FABRICATIO	|		FINANCE MA
|FORWARD SU		|	GOODSIN			|HOLDING BA
|MASTER SA		|	OFFICE SAL	|		OUT ON LOA
|PAINT AND		|	QUARANTINE	|		SERVICE DE
|SHOW OFFIC		|	STORES			|VEHICLE WO
|WARE MAN

### Customer sync from Shopify to Epicor

New customers when added to Shopify will need to be added to Epicor, likewise changes to customer details will need to be In Shopify each Customer record has default contact information and a default address (with its own contact).

Shopify stores a main address which also acts as the billing address – this will be stored as the main address in Epicor. Shipping addresses can either be the main address or specified on an order-by-order basis, with the last 10 shipping addresses available to select for new orders. GHA suggests that we standardise the process for the link back to Epicor and we use one-time shipments for every order and copy the shipping address from the Shopify order to Epicor.

### Sales Order sync from Shopify to Epicor

Sales orders in Shopify will be added to Epicor and marked as a web sale. 

Currencies will be converted in Shopify and will always be stored as the base currency in Epicor.

Tax is calculated in Shopify and will be calculated as normal in Epicor without synchronising – any differences will be journaled by finance.

### Purchase Orders

If sales orders are added and there is insufficient stock available in Epicor then a purchase order is to be raised. 

It is understood that Hobson Industries will not be using the built in PO Suggestions in Epicor but require Purchase Orders to be automated. Some clarification is required around the rules, e.g. preferred suppliers, minimum order quantity, but this is good in principle.

### Shipment Sync from Epicor to Shopify

Shopify requires ship dates and tracking numbers as feedback to customers, as well as a message to say the goods have been shipped.


## Technical Requirements

### Field Mapping

Fields will need to be mapped two ways. Part and stock (inventory) information will be synchronised from Epicor to Shopify. Customer and Order information will be synchronised from Shopify to Epicor

The following document shows the fields that need to be populated in Shopify from the corresponding fields that are populated in Epicor.

[Field Mapping Epicor to Shopify](/Apps/Requirements/DEV_Epicor/EPIC000007-FieldMappingShopify)

The following document shows the fields that need to be populated in Epicor from the corresponding fields that are populated in Shopify.

[Field Mapping Shopify to Epicor](/Apps/Requirements/DEV_Epicor/EPIC000007-FieldMappingEpicor)

<br/>

### Architecture

The synchronisation between Epicor and Shopify will go via GHA Servers. There are several advantages to this:

•	GHA Servers always on so won't miss an update from either Epicor or Shopify. Hobsons have known issues with connectivity with Epicor
•	API calls will simply read the message and return a read status, so quick
•	Be able to handle and resolve sync errors
•	More efficient code than using Epicor directives
•	More flexible in terms of what we are able to do
 
Of course there are always disadvantages:

•	Rely on GHA as third party
•	More time to set up as both Epicor and GHA interfaces need to be written


### Database

The following tables will need to be set up in the GHA database. The tables will hold all the information for the synchronisation as well as flags for whether or not a successful sync has taken place.

- Part
- Inventory
- Customer
- SalesOrder
  - SaleOrderLines

In addition there will be tables to log transactions and any errors.

> Create database and associated code schemas - 4 hours
{.is-info}

<br/>

### API

The following endpoints will be required to receive the data form the data directives described below:

- /LoginSync
- /PartSync
- /PartLotSync
- /ImageSync
- /PriceListSync
- /PriceListPartSync
- /PartQuantitySync
- /ShipmentSync

> Set up a message queue to receive data - 2 hours
> Set up methods to write API calls to message queue - 4 hours
> Set up endpoints to accept the calls from Epicor - 2 hours
> Log the calls - 2 hours
> Handshake back to Epicor - 6 hours
{.is-info}

The following endpoints will be required to receive the data from the Shopify web hooks

- /CustomerSync
- /OrderSync
- /OrderLineSync

> Set up endpoints to accept the calls from Shopify - 2 hours
> Log the calls - 2 hours
{.is-info}

The following webhooks will need to be set up in shopify

- Customer addition
- Customer update
- Customer delete
- Ship to addition
- Ship to update
- Ship to delete
- Sales order addition
- Sales order update
- Sales order delete
- Sales order line addition
- Sales order line update
- Sales order line delete

> Set up web hooks - 24 hours
{.is-info}

<br/>

### Front End
<br/>

#### Web Pages

A secure front end will be written to allow Hobson Industries to access the log files.

Security can be via an Epicor login if required.

> Create secure login page - x hours
> Create simple lists of sync and error logs - x hours
{.is-info}

<br/>

### Services

#### Synchronisation service to talk to Shopify

Messages from Epicor will be used to update the following in Shopify

- /PartSync
- /PartLotSync
- /ImageSync
- /PriceListSync
- /PriceListPartSync
- /PartQuantitySync
- /ShipmentSync

> API calls to Shopify to update products - 16 hours
> API calls to Shopify to update shipments - 16 hours
{.is-info}

#### Synchronisation service to talk to Epicor

Messages from Shopify will be used to update the following in Epicor

- Customer addition
- Customer update
- Customer delete
- Ship to addition
- Ship to update
- Ship to delete
- Sales order addition
- Sales order update
- Sales order delete
- Sales order line addition
- Sales order line update
- Sales order line delete

> API calls to Epicor to update customers - 8 hours
> API calls to Epicor to update sales orders - 16 hours
{.is-info}

<br/>

### Epicor

#### UD Fields

Part
•	Shopify part

Price List
•	Shopify price list
•	Associate lot number

PartBin
•	Shopify bin

Customer
•	Shopify customer (although this is also signified by the C-W prefix)
•	Shopify customer ID

OrderHead
•	Shopify order
•	Shopify order id


> Set up UD fields - 2 hours
> Add fields to the relevant Epicor form - 4 hours
{.is-info}

#### UD Tables

**File paths to images**
|Field|Usage|
|---|---|
|Key1|PartNum|
|PathToImage_c|Path to image|


**Vehicle engines and their categories linked to each part**

|Field|Usage|
|---|---|
|Key1|PartNum|
|Engine_c|Engine|
|Category_c|Category|

> Set up UD tables and link to parts screen - 4 hours
{.is-info}

#### User Codes

A new User Code type will vbe set up in Epicor which will hold settings for the following:

•	User defined tables used
•	Lot types/price list link

> Set up user codes - 1 hour
{.is-info}

#### Data Directives

Part table
•	Add a new part to Epicor marked as a web part, upload part
•	Change an existing part to a web part, upload lots as variants, images, prices and stock
•	Change an existing part to a non-shopify part, update the status in Shopify
•	Make an existing Shopify part inactive, update the status in Shopify

---

Part Lot table
•	Add a new lot of type N, AR, R or U, upload lot as a variant to its variant part

---

Image table (UD)
•	Image file added
•	Image file removed

>Note that changing an image file on the server with the same name will not be enough to trigger a data directive in Epicor.

---

User defined table for engines and categories
•	Engine or Category added to part
•	Engine or Category removed from part

---

Price List table
•	Change the Shopify flags on a price list, upload the prices to the correct products/variants
•	Remove the Shopify flags on a price list, action to be confirmed

---

Price List Part table
•	Add or amend a part to a Shopify price list
•	Remove a part from a Shopify price list, action to be confirmed

Price list expiry will be handled by an Epicor Function running daily which will check for price lists that have expired or started and upload the new prices accordingly

---

Stock in Shopify is represented as Parts Available – Sales Allocated. It is likely that when stock changes in Epicor the amount less the order demand will need to be sent to Shopify, but this needs to be tested to ascertain the true mechanism. For example, changes to the PartQty table for sales demand may already be handled by Shopify.

PartBin table
•	Change on-hand quantity, upload total on hand for Shopify parts less total demand for Shopify sales orders

PartQty table
•	Change on hand quantity, upload total on hand for Shopify parts less total demand for Shopify sales orders

PartWhse table
•	This table stores both on-hand and sales demand quantities and may be used for triggers if warehouses are exclusively used for stock available for Shopify

---

ShipHead table
•	When the ship date is changed in Epicor update Shopify
•	When a tracking number is added to Epicor update Shopify
•	When an order is shipped in Epicor update Shopify

> Set up data directives, 2 hours each - 32 hours
{.is-info}

<br/>

#### Method Directives

Fields set in Shopify should not be able to be amended in Epicor, therefore add method directives to prevent changes

•	Customers
•	Sales Orders

> Set up method directives to prevent changes - 2 hours
{.is-info}

#### Functions

**Price List expiry**

Price list expiry will be handled by an Epicor Function running daily which will check for price lists that have expired or started and upload the new prices accordingly

> Write price list expiry function - 4 hours
> Add function to task scheduler - 1 hours
{.is-info}

